hi I'm Sarah from the good food cookery
team and I'm gonna show you how to make
a ginger and apple punch so I first did
this recipe for the Jubilee party so
it's got that kind of big making loads
of big drug falls really big party feel
what do you thing about flavors nice
ginger sort of really popular at the
moment isn't it kind of like a really
probably what I start with some fresh
ginger actually like nice fresh ginger I
just peeled it best way to peel it's
just to scrape the skin off with a
teaspoon so you don't lose any of the
ginger then you literally just scrape
off the the yucky bit on the outside so
I've just thinly sliced it probably
about a piece about the size of a thumb
or something I'm always in Sainsbury's
or Waitrose or wherever ups snapping off
bits of ginger that I like discard it if
you honestly if you go after me you'll
find all those horrible dry nobley bits
at the end I probably chopped off
no load much ginger and then some slices
of Apple now if you were doing this
ahead just toss them in a little bit of
lemon juice or lime juice so they don't
Brown I'm gonna go let's do thin slices
this way I'll show you another nice way
to do an apple is I'll in a minute so
I've got nice red and green ones it just
looks a bit prettier in the thing if you
can get red screens red skinned ones
here we go
so you keep the skin yeah I like it for
the colour because you're probably gonna
you're I would fish these bits out and
eat them maybe not the ginger but
definitely the Apple because it'll start
to pull the lovely flavors but I think
colour wise I really like the prettiness
of the skin like pears or yeah
definitely nice like an under ripe pear
would be good so
they do have those really nice little
red pairs at the moment it's kind of
good season for pairs as well so and but
bit under right you don't it kind of
mushing up in the dream but I don't
think so and the same thing just cover
with a bit of lemon juice something like
that you could go so whole Apple instead
of going the way I went before you could
go through the middle which looks quite
cool
yes nah yeah I need to get where's my
pips I've got to picture see really nice
kind of that like a bit Christmassy I've
seen got a beautiful cut so we just
layer up so many of these in it in a
beautiful jug fact I like those much
better so how great they look you do
them like that very Christmassy very
Christmassy but you've got red skinned
apple let's do those in fact I'm going
to fish out the slices there so 2009
slices aren't they let's go with the
rounds get some of the stairs stars to
the outside of the jugs nice there a
couple more be it also got some night
these are nice small apples so they look
quite sweet in there you do you're not
too much of a mouthful so pop some of
them in and then I'm gonna go in with so
vodka this recipes made with vanilla
vodka if you can't buy any then I'm just
gonna cheat today and just use some good
vanilla extract not essence so extract
is the natural vanilla essence is kind
of the fake vanilla just doesn't have as
good a flavor or taste like kind of a
synthetic vanilla cake so I'm just going
to add a splash of that about a teaspoon
to about five hundred mils of vodka
would be a good ratio or if you've got
time split a couple of vanilla pods and
just pop them in your vodka bottle and
then just might shake every day and all
the seeds will come out you'll get
nice flavor yeah vanilla is quite um
venerable it's quite a sort of flexible
flavor like you could use that in loads
of different different cocktails it's
not - one more the other so in with some
vodka and like I said it I've already
got my vanilla extract in there though
this makes a really really large amount
on our website it's for a big party so
I'm just gonna scale it down a bit but
basically kind of one equal part vodka -
apple juice so loads of apple juice if
you can get cloudy apple juice I think
that looks really pretty and then ginger
beer
so the fiery or the better you get those
really nice small glass bottles and like
really spicy ginger beers I think that'd
be really good yeah it's it's a it's a
slightly cloudy when it's muck I think
it looks much nicer seems to like chef
the big apple slices better to contrast
that so put about yeah like it's bad
double ginger beer - apple juice oh this
one looks really good so check I've got
everything in there did you use
different spirits or if you didn't like
a mocktail kind of what yeah you leave
out the vodka entirely maybe put still
some vanilla in because it adds a nice
sweetness but yeah you can leave out the
vodka Tommy
rum maybe rum and ginger beers really
nice mmm
and then going into some lime again
that's nice with rum isn't it so yeah
bit of lime just to sort of freshen up
those flavors
and if I was doing this I'd I'd kind of
probably make this ahead so that the
fresh ginger has time to kind of add
loads of flavor to the rest of the mix
did you make it in the morning ready for
the afternoon then yeah definite the ice
to go like I said mental illness as soon
as you get the apples in they're not
gonna go Brown as quickly but you could
do everything else and then just before
you're ready to serve go in with the
apples go in with the ice just have
loads and loads of these drugs in your
fridge or pop it back into the ginger
beer bottle if you've got like a big
ginger beer but you've just mixed it all
that with again like add the lime juice
to taste so I always taste it again
because you just never know how much
juice you're gonna get from your limes
let's give that another stir and I've
got nice tall glasses to serve this one
I'm gonna add some more lime wedges as
well or some lime wedges it's just
another bit of flavour I really like
when you get a big jug of something and
it's packed with loads of different
stuff it like when you do a Pimm's or
something it was like a winter Pimm's
yeah Pimm's are probably actually nice
in here awesome yeah but it's in a
couple of cinnamon sticks in there maybe
yeah okay I've done my fancy apples but
I don't know if they actually fit in the
jar in the in the I'll look just about
nice voice it's like I'd planned it some
ice as well keep it nice and cold
did you serve it hops yeah good it
wouldn't you'd lose the fears when you
heat the ginger beer but if some of
those really fancy ginger beers you get
aren't fizzy anyway are they they're
kind of just fiery and flat get be
really nice hot if you had a hot new
never the ginger beer afterwards I was
like yeah don't be fizzy now you do it
in ladles it you know half filled your
jar so just do just do your like vodka
don't let it boil obviously cuz
otherwise you lose lose all the alcohol
nurses the so don't let it boil
but I'm just going to snap him I still
it's nice um with your lime juice your
apple juice and heat that up and then
just a nice big chunk of ginger beer on
the side so let's top this one out more
wine yeah I'm a bit over mulled wine as
well I just think it's a bit you could
use like if we said if or you're using
pears instead of apples you could use
pear cider pear cider and ginger beer
right say there's that one bit cooler
nice long drink
just keep topping up the jug from the
fridge so that's my ginger apple and
vanilla punch which favorites so far
it's between this one then the Pam brie
with my heat a yeah because I like
ginger so yeah yeah particularly with
the fresh ginger yeah so nice and fiery
we would probably help if you had that
ginger you just bashed it in a pestle
and mortar as well before really release
it make it all lovely did you did like
making that ginger in a tube canoeing by
the pureed
I don't know what it's stored in you
know you get like the chili in a jar and
it's in like a vinegar I don't know
what's in there
you might be able to it might have less
I mean like chili it must have some sort
of preservative in it but I'm sure if
you just whizzed up ginger into a paste
like she buy it in sell for Indian shops
as well don't you more like in jars mmm
might work because it sort of really go
through the whole lot or you could just
put everything into a blender before you
added the ginger fears and whizz it up
and then get the ginger sort of through
it maybe add a straw then so you don't
get sort of bits it's not too bitty and
this is my ginger apple vanilla punch
great for parties
you